# AzerothCore

**Source:** https://smartchip79.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/test/pages/622593/AzerothCore
**Updated:** 2025-10-05T18:26:01.046541
**Page ID:** conf_099165_117972

---

---

## How to run your own WotLK AzerothCore with Playerbots server using Linux (2024)

## Updated: 2024-11-16 added links to custom camera fix clients and a patch that fixes the Remote Code Exploit (RCE) that allows any private server owner to inject and run arbitrary code on your computer. Part 1 Installation:  Part 2 Bot Control:  Part 3 Installing modules:  Part 4 Installing ARAC module - All Races All Classes! Undead Hunters!:  Part 5 Auction House Bot module! 

Today I am going to teach you how to run your own World of Warcraft: Wrath of
the Lich King server from start to finish using
Virtualbox and Debian Linux.
My video is not going to be flashy, but I assure you that I am teaching you just
about the best way to do this.
There are other guides out there on websites and youtube that recommend you run
this in Windows using so-called "repacks" but
as a gamer since 1984, and someone who has ran his own dedicated game servers as
far back as the Counterstrike beta, I strongly
disagree with that way of doing it. Don't just take my word for it - the server
we are using - Azerothcore (which is free and open source on github) - agrees
with me in their FAQ: 

Q. Do you support Repacks based on AzerothCore?
A. No. Repacks are NOT supported and we strongly suggest to not use them for
several reasons. You can check this tutorial for an easy way of installing AC
without using any repack.
There are a lot of guides out there, but so far I've not seen any of them show
you how to install the version with bots to make your server come to life, let
alone basic server upkeep, bot control,
and additional cool things such as the AI voice addon which has narration for
the quest text!

---

## Benefits to running your own WoW server

Retail World of Warcraft as we all know is a non-stop train - it keeps going and
never stops. Private servers, on the other hand, are hosted
by fans across the world, but they all seem to eventually go offline for one
reason or another. They also mostly beg you for money, or are pay to win, and
are
generally for-profit. Azerothcore is completely different. Finally, a group of
people decided to collaberate and allow anyone to submit changes and
improvements with
their free and open source model! Although you can use this exact source code to
run your own server, we will be using a slightly modified version that allows
for bot integration.
The official Azerothcore website is here: 
All of the other links are below. I am not a programmer and I have no
affiliation with any of the tools we will be using today - I am just a gamer, a
fan of World of Warcraft, and a strong supporter of freedom and open source
software.

I will try not to get too technical in this tutorial. You should be able to get
it up and running as quickly as possible. I could explain every little thing
that is going on, but this
tutorial would be several hours long. We can run now and learn later! I tend to
be more of a gamer than a knob turner! Self-hosting World of Warcraft gives you
god-like
powers in terms of customization. Here are just some of the control you have in
the game:

-Name your realm, assign GMs (game masters), create accounts (and what expansion
that account has unlocked, from vanilla to WotLK), and more!
-Install/uninstall any of the dozens of fan-made modules for Azerothcore, such
as transmog NPC, skip DK starting zone, account-wide mounts, and more!
-Allow cross-faction grouping, guilding, communication, and raiding. You can
even decide to allow all classes for any race, such as a human druid! It's up to
you.
-Change bot behavior, item drop rates, gold, boss health, mob health, mob spawn
rates and locations.
-Change and/or disable cooldowns of abilities, debuffs, buffs, and everything
else.
-Disable the daze effect (being hit from behind), hearth cooldown, hunter pet
happiness, deserter debuff, and everything else! There is almost no limit!
-Keep up to date on future changes of playerbots and Azerothcore or decide to
never update and your server will remain static and unchanged! A peaceful,
relaxing azeroth that is always available.
-Open the server to remote connections and allow your friends anywhere in the
world to connect to you! Or keep it private so only you or those on your home
network to connect and play!
-The good feeling that you own your server and it cannot be taken away from you.
You own it. Nobody will ask you for money, and Blizzard cannot take your server
down. It is really yours.

Why would I want to play with bots?
-Bots make your sever feel alive, even if you're the only human logged into your
realm!
-Bots will help you quest, dungeon, and raid. They will heal you, resurrect
you,buff you, and even greet you!
-You can decide to have 0 bots, 1 bot, or 1600 bots running around on your
realm. It's up to you.
-"Playerbots" are unique in that they are actual, valid accounts generated on
your server. They have real inventories, gear, stats, and gold.
Unlike "NPCBots," Playerbots can be inspected, traded with, and commanded on a
deeper level. For example, you can spawn a Dwarf priest to give yourself the
Fear Ward buff!
-You can immediately change the spec and gear of your bots in your group at any
time. You can even summon them to you wherever you are, even in a dungeon,
without a warlock!
I have not tried it, but I'm fairly sure you can summon a real warlock to you
and have the warlock cast an actual summoning stone, just like the real thing.

---

## Why use my guide?

I played World of Warcraft from January 2005 to sometime in 2021, mostly as
"Painbow-Mal'Ganis," an Orc Hunter. I want to play
the game as accurately as possible without cheating, but I also want the ability
to try interesting things out if I feel like it such as flying to Hyjal (a place
you couldn't get to in 3.3.5a),
or give myself quality of life features such as instant log out. Who ever liked
waiting 20 seconds to log out anyway?

---

## Hardware requirements for the server.

50GB of hard drive space dedicated to the server
At least a quad core CPU (You could try with less. Not recommended.)
At least 4GB of dedicated memory to the VM (Virtual Machine)

---

## Software requirements.

Windows 7, 10, 11
VirtualBox - 
Debian Bookworm ISO -

PuTTY (to connect to Debian and issue commands) (get 64-bit x86 version) -

PuTTY (to connect to Debian and issue commands) mirror if above link isn't
working: 
HeidiSQL (for easy database modifications) -

WoTLK 3.3.5a client (to play the game) 17GB -

Unbot addon (to control the bots in-game.) -

Unbot mirror link if the one above doesn't work:

TipTac tooltip addon: 
TipTac mirror link if above doesn't work:


Optional (although recommended) software:
VoiceOver addon for World of Warcraft WotLK 3.3.5a:

VoiceOver vanilla sounds:


---

---